Corkboard is one part of a three-pronged approach to rethinking how people participate in communities online. The other parts are Diem (a messaging service) and an as-of-yet untitled e-commmerce service (because no matter how much we'd like to pretend otherwise, compensating each other for goods and services is vital to the survival of any community). All three services will have specifically designed integrations for each other.
What is Corkboard specifically?
Corkboard's core functionality will be as a communal folk literature archive, but it is intended to be customizable enough to extend this functionality to other artforms as users wish, and also be usable as a social media/blog platform, within the context that blogs are often a form of folk literature and social media often serves as folk art.
There are then three primary pieces of this functionality: the literature, the archive, and the ui (users must be able to interact with the archive to access the literature).

The Literature:

The literature will be contained in "posts" (you likely already know what a post is, but i do want to draw attention to the parallels of posting a flyer to a bulletin board [corkboard]). Posts will have the following: required:{ author, at least one: [text content, file content, metatext], content tags [`#untagged` by default], collection tags [`#untagged` by default] }, optional: {interactions: likes, comments, reblogs [may not necessarily be called this, but it should be more similar to tumblr reblogs than twitter reposts, so this is the tentative name]}
reblogs will not show any of the metatext or collection tags of previous reblogs; they will only show the metatext and collection tags of the current reblog. reblogs may have their own set of content tags, but they will inherit the original content tags by default.
there should be an option to have posts deviate from the default theme according to what collection they're in (so a post in someone's "blues" collection might render with a blue background instead of orange), and, consequently, as an accessibility feature, there most be an option to override this on all posts in a stream

.cbd file type specifically for sharing static Corkboard posts (if a post is to be readable by outside apps like Diem, it should have its own file type so it doesn't get confused for a different type of file. this file type should only be used for sharing a post and should absolutely not be used in the archive*, because it would be too easy for people to edit other people's posts that way. instead, part of the cbd file should link back to the archive point where it was found, and the archive should have a way to convert posts in the archive to indiviual cbd files. also yes cbd is a drug, but it's also an abbreviation for Corkboard. i wanted to do .cbp [CorkBoard Post] but that was taken by Code::Blocks and even though they will likely have very little overlap, i wanted to avoid confusion at all costs. *okay, upon further reflection i think a specific post file could be used in the archive; i would just have to be careful about finding a way to check if it's been edited; i think perhaps having a standardized naming convention that includes hash codes for the file contents could be a solution. will have to ask an expert.)

indiviual post storage thoughts - a folder with naming convention as such: `AuthorDatetimeHash` potentially with an additional character in there for purposes of identifying (at most 8, with each bit in the character encoding corresponding to a boolean fact about the post) pieces of crucial information about the post, in particular, if it's 18+, a reblog, edited, contains images, contains video, or contains audio; this is only a useful option if it's able to exclude all potentially illegal file name characters, which is unlikely, but if it is possible, it would prevent the need to open a folder and check its contents to determine what will likely be the most important pieces of information that would lead to it being skipped by a search anyways.
within this folder would be a root.cbd file containing the root post (text content, references to file content, collection tags, and, if it's a reblog, a reference to all previous reblogs in the chain [not just the immediately previous one, because we want to preserve the reblog chain even if someone in the middle deletes their post] and the edit number of each at the time of reblogging. note that the author is already given by the directory name so including it here would be a redundancy, but it may be beneficial), a folder for file content, a subdirectory for each edit, a list of content tags and their associated accuracies, and a file (or multiple files, whichever ends up being optimal) containing a list of references to each reblog of this post (so that users can easily find reblogs of a post), a list of comments (which will have their own data type but may not need their own file type). note that only the root post and file contents should be used to generate the hash code, because the content tags, likes, comments, and reblogs will update much too frequently to simply be included in new edits of a post, so they should not carry an expectation of remaining constant; luckily, these are also the things which can easily be reverified (there should be an external list of references to all posts with any particular content tag, so there will be a way to check that posts referenced in that list contain the content tags they're supposed to and make changes to the posts as necessary. each user will have their own list of liked posts that can be checked against the likes within the posts they've liked. reblogs are obviously doubly linked, providing an immediate avenue for list verification. and every user should also have a list of comments they've left on posts [i don't know why this isn't more common. like, it should be private by default, but they should have access to it, y'know?]).

the post object - 




The Archive:
the archive will be decentralized. every machine running a CorkBoard instance will serve as part of the archive.
.cbdx or even .bin file type for storing collections of posts. read/write access should ideally be limited to the CorkBoard app, but that can always be overridden, so there must be other protections in place to prevent users from editing each other's posts/alterting the archive.
consider: volunteer-based stewardship of servers that store lists of every post with a certain tag and other servers that store references to every post so that any given post can be found; i think this would potentially be a very bad idea because i just don't know how to implement it. Large-scale data management is the piece of this project i have the absolute least knowledge and experience in, so i will need to do so very much educating of myself before i can confidently make any assertions about how the archive management will work at all. 



The UI:
mobile and desktop. there should be a default ui, but it should be customizable. like. extremely customizable.





Development and Release:
i think development and release should follow four main stages: core development, closed beta, open beta, full release. we should not move on to a new stage until all the goals of a previous stage have been met and tested.

Core:
This stage will consist of the development of the core functionality of creating, sending, receiving, and viewing text posts. There should be a standard way to create and access a user account by the end of this stage.

Closed Beta:
This stage will extend functionality to video, audio, and image embeds within posts, as well as allowing for other file types to be embedded in posts (though without necessarily having native integrations for reading/viewing those files). the archive does not need to be fully decentralized by the end of this stage, but that would be ideal. The ui should be fairly customizable by the end of this stage; at minimum, for mobile there should be left and right handed options (though a full user determined layout with a right handed default would be ideal), there should be a video only post stream option, headline videos should work. there should be a dedicated avenue for moderation by an administrator, but at all stages in release, admin moderation should be limited to only extreme cases; by the end of this stage there should be a way for users to suggest content tags to other users' posts; this should be the primary avenue of moderation, with users being able to accept a suggested content tag by another user, or, by default, appending the tentative content tag to the post with a degree of accuracy relating to the number of people who have suggested the tag and/or the number of people who have identified the suggested tag as incorrect or irrelevent. there should be a way to generate streams of posts based on boolean search methods allowing for primary search criteria consisting of: author, user specific collection tags, content tags [and content tag accuracy]. Additionally, streams may be limited in scope according to secondary search criteria consisting of: [any primary search criteria with a boolean operation to a secondary search criterion], text content [string search. may have to be limited. note that this is already limited in that it doesn't allow a string search of the entire archive], date posted, original posts only [no reblogs], content file types, number of interactions of any type [who am i to judge if someone only wants to see popular stuff?]. Users should be able to save multiple stream criteria so they can determine at any point how they wish to curate their experience.

Open Beta:
This stage will include implementing Diem and e-commerce integrations [the main reason for this is to allow for a streamlined process by which users may choose to pay other users for their contributions to the archive. we're all artists; we all need to get paid. there will be no native advertising functionality, so all revenue will come from e-commerce integration], fully decentralizing the archive, implementing an audio only post stream and dual audio-text/image post stream options so that users can listen to audio-only posts while viewing non-audio posts (although depending on time constraints, this may be implemented in the Closed Beta instead)


Full Release:
This stage will primarily consist of developing plug-ins for additional file types to be readable. Otherwise it will just be the requisite maintainance to keep the application usable on various operating systems; if there is some incredible breakthrough in how the internet works and adding support for this breakthrough would fall outside of the scope of requisite maintainance or what can be achieved with a plug-in, then so be it; sometimes platforms die; we don't need a single platform that can do everything forever; it's good to have things that serve a specific purpose (and this is already an ambitiously large project).


random notes: 4eb7d6 <- very pretty color for showing that a post has been successfully curated
